GDPR Concept
	General Data Protection Regulation
	Effective on EU from May 25th, 2018
	It applies to everyone handling the personal data of EU citizens, even if they are not based in the EU.
	Failing to comply with GDPR are subject to fines for up to 20 million euros or 4% of your yearly turnover, whichever is higher. 
	A person’s personal data is always owned by that person. This means that they must have control over it (with some exceptions).

Definitions
	Data subject
		a human-being (user, customer, employee, etc) whose personal information you are processing.
	Processing
		Any activity or set of activities performed on personal data, e.g. viewing, collecting, storing, transferring, modifying, eras
	Personal data
		It is almost any data about a person
			1) name
			2) email
			3) age
			4) personal identification number
			5) location info
			6) appearance description
			7) information about hobbies
			8) income
			9) cultural preferences
			10) analytics
			11) comments
			12) reviews/posts
			13) etc
	Sensitive data
		1) racial or ethnic origin
		2) political opinions
		3) religious or philosophical beliefs
		4) trade union membership
		5) health
		6) sex life or sexual orientation
		7) genetic data
		8) biometric data
	Anonymous data
		Data after removing everything that ties to to a person that it belongs to.
		You cant identify the user from the data itself
		After anonimized, data is not personal data anymore
	Controller
		It can be a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body
		It is someone who controls personal data of others. This person determines the purpose (the why) and means 
		   (the how) of processing personal data
		If you own a website that does anything with its visitors personal data, you are the controller. 
	Processor
		It processes personal data on behalf of someone else. 
		It is any other natural or legal person who processes or stores data on behalf of the Controller.
		   It can be the web hosting company, a mail service company, etc
		""""There has to be a written contract between the Controller and the data processor""""

User's rights under GDPR
	1) Users can request a copy of all of their data you are storing, both in human- and machine-readable format
	   The controller must comply within 30 days.
	2) Users can request you to delete all of their data. The controller must comply within 30 days.
	3) Users must provide you consent for each use of their data that you perform. 
	   Users must be able to withdraw the consent they’ve given at any time
	4) User must be informed of everythig you do (like sharing) with their data

Business' responsibilities under GDPR
	1) You need to keep a registry of all data processing activities.
	2) You might need to appoint a Data Protection Officer.
	3) You need to have contracts with everyone you share customer data with
	4) You are not allowed to process sensitive data without an explicit consent from the data subject
	5) Sensitive data also requires more strict safety and security measures
	6) You cannot transfer customer data to someone who does not comply with GDPR.
	7) If a data breach occurs, you need to notify your local supervisory authority and possibly your customers
	8) If you store a lot of data or work with sensitive data, you might be obliged to make a Data Protection Impact Assessment. 
	   And you are responsible for demonstrating that you’re GDPR-compliant to your supervisory authority
	9) Portability. By request of the Data Subject to transfer his/her data to another company, you must provide the data to 
	   the other company in a machine-readable format or alternatively, transfer it directly to another company or service.
Features of the WordPress GDPR Framework by Data443
	1) It provides various tools and features to help you make your website properly compliant. 
	   All the base requirements of GDPR are covered.
	2) It guides you through the maze of rules, regulations and requirements of GDPR.
	3) it aims to provide solutions for various complex corner cases regarding data privacy and customer rights.
	4) it’s a framework for developers. It is opensource
	5) It provides a page where visitors can authenticate via email or login. This page allow visitors themselves to 
		view, export or delete their personal data automatically
		- Request to view their personal data,
		- Request to export their personal data in a machine-readable format,
		- Request to delete their personal data,
		- View and withdraw consents they have given (more on that later).
		- Anonymize their data
	
Limitations of the WordPress GDPR Framework by Data443
	1) Most existing plugins are not GDPR compliant
	2) It is well suited for simple Wordpress websites
	3) It is compatible with woocommerce and Form7




Configuring the plugin
	<Username> dashboard via Tools > Privacy.







